good afternoon everybody this is Jeff
Phillips again with college frog and
national meet the firm's week we're
gonna get started on what's going to be
an awesome presentation today and
tonight actually for our presenter I'll
explain that in a moment we're recording
today's session so that we can watch it
later and for those of you couldn't make
it you'll get to watch it later on on
YouTube and so gosh it's day four of
meet the firm's week we're getting near
the homestretch here but it's been a
great week so if you've participated in
all the webinars well actually if you
haven't participate on the webinars
you'll know you I want you to know that
the first day of the week we listen to
while a CPA Excel talk about how to make
a winning game plan for the CPA exam
that'll be available and on webinar next
week and we heard from Deloitte talking
about the essential skills you need to
make that important transition from
college to career and if you if you
missed yesterday's session with Yvonne
Harris college Rob's career coach it was
it was great we talked she talked about
very practical advice about how to
negotiate job offers how to select from
competing job offers how to turn a job
offer down and how you can make an
immediate impact and start yeah we're
talking a lot about soft skills but
these are critical elements to to really
hit the ground running when you start
your career so back to talking about
today I want to thank you all for being
here we've got a team literally an
international team presenting today and
I look forward to hearing the
presentation I would like for everybody
on the call to tell us what school you
are attending you can go ahead and enter
that into your control panel I'd like to
tell so Alan and team we've got people
from Stony Brook Texas Christian
University which is in Fort Worth Cal
Poly San Luis Obispo the University of
Nevada Las Vegas Mississippi College Cal
Poly with the University of Denver Wayne
State North Carolina Austin Community
College University of Texas at Austin
University of Idaho University of
Georgia Trinity Christian College Calvin
College Calgary and Canada
University of Maryland Thomas Jefferson
School of Law recent graduate college UC
Irvine Virginia Commonwealth University
VCU Indiana University South Bend Cal
State Northridge so so for Alan and
Sarah and you guys in in England you can
you can gather that there is a wide
audience from across the United States
here on this call this is really
exciting
so today's today's a critical element of
career planning and if you're not
familiar with the ACCA although I'm sure
most of you are the ACCA is a global
body for accounting professionals and
accounting careers so let's say that you
wanted to have a career in Hong Kong or
you wanted to practice accounting and
Dubai anywhere outside of the United
States ACCA is a globally recognized
brand it globally recognized credential
it's like a like a passport where you
can work anywhere and it's recognized
everywhere so it's a purpose so they
offer a professional level qualification
for global careers today we're gonna be
hearing from Allen Hatfield so Allen is
the director of learning for the ACCA
the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants on Allen is a member of the
Aggies DA's executive team and he has
responsibility for ensuring that the
ACCA provides students and members with
the competencies that are demanded by
employers globally so Allen's been with
the ACCA
or well Allen has had 20 years of
experience within professional education
and has a passion for lifelong learning
so he's led the ACC A's learning
Directorate since the night since 2009
Allen I'm gonna turn it over to you I
just wanted to say thank you
I know it's 8 o'clock at night where
you're at but we have an eager group of
students ready to learn and the floor is
yours but once again thank you so much
for being here
well thank you very much Jeff and hello
everyone and as Jeff said my name is
Allen Hatfield and I'm the director of
learning at Asus Eee and I have to tell
you
it's cooled a rainy dark evening here in
London and but heating all the places
that your and your calling in from a
bring some sunshine
I think over to London so thank you very
much for joining us and today I'm
delighted and to be joining you today on
this ATC sponsored webinar and I'd like
to talk to you today about the global
opportunities in accounting and finance
and I'm going to talk about this in a
general sense but I also think it's
important that all of you on this call
should be aspiring for the top so I'm
going to talk about the future water
would of the CFO and the chief financial
officer now you are unsure and all
talented individuals who are reaching
for a high level of educational
excellence through your studies and so
I'm a putative of that so I'm also going
to help to show how you can take the
states to become the CFO is are even the
CEOs of tomorrow and and talk about how
the SEC qualification can also support
that journey and know everyone who's
listening I think may have gathered by
nays I'd say whilst I'm calling in from
London and I am talking with Scottish
accent so to give you some context and
to help you and become accustomed to my
accent imagine em and this may depend on
your age but imagine you're either
listening to Sean Connery or you're
listening to brief heart or perhaps
union McGregor or even m and the muddy
air for those and tennis and players
amongst the audience and probably
younger generation amongst the audience
as well now we have a whole hour
together and my plan is to talk for
about 30 to 35 minutes and then also
some time for questions at the end and
to just share the agenda that I'm
proposing to cover in the presentation
with you and I'd like to talk about what
ECCE is first of all and I appreciate
that
you mean notes have heard of us and so
I'm going to give you a bit of
information about what we do our mission
and our values and the type of people
that follow successful careers by
joining ACCA I'm also going to talk to
you about why I think May is a really
exciting time for the accountancy
profession and I should tell you now
that I'm not a Salesman I am speaking
from the heart and I genuinely think
that the accountancy profession is the
one to watch as the world continues
takes fees rapid fluctuation and change
finally I'll cover what etc' offers and
through our professional qualification
I'll tell you have been severe
disruption of our qualification and how
we help our students on the pathway to a
career in accountancy so first of all
and what is a CC bow if you see is the
global body for professional accountants
we've been around since 1904 and so we
have a long and illustrious history of
offering qualifications that enable
individuals to enter the accountancy
profession and go on to have very
successful careers we ensure our
professional accountants in all our
sectors and in all our countries a reach
I maintain a high level of competency
and experience and we also ensure that
our members are regulated in their work
and their professional conduct they're
ones our students have achieved
membership they are considered
professionals in the truest sense of the
word this means they can use the letters
ACCA after their names which makes them
clearly identifiable as finance
professionals to businesses and the
public they can then go on to achieve
what we call fellowships theses
and through their careers they can take
advantage of a range of technical career
networking and research benefits that
the ACC offers very importantly our
members and our students come from a
very diverse mix of backgrounds and
cultures and this helps our
organisations around the world would
benefit from the diverse thinking and
the different perspectives that atha see
a complete finance professionals bring
to organisations now when talking about
Etha CAE and an organisation and we
always refer back to our values and they
are opportunity diversity innovation
accountability and integrity and they
should be appearing in front of you
these values do not change over time
they've remained in place since 1904
when we were first created and our
organization and our students and
members remain true to them by remaining
true to them we've provided opportunity
for people in many countries around the
world through our history we view
qualities such as high standards
diversity international relevance
integrity and innovation at the heart of
everything that we do so in that respect
I think we are actually pioneering
professional body and we've helped to
establish and grow the accountancy
profession in developed and also
emerging markets around the world and
capacity building is a very very
important part of our work as an
organisation now I know as I said that
many of you are probably not that
familiar with the ACC or the ACC brand
and so I thought it also just gives you
an idea of our global spread of members
and an idea of then the scale of the
organization that we have so first of
all our global network and this slide in
front of you shows you where we have
offices it shows you where we have
active centers and partnerships array in
the world as you can see is quite
considerable and and also of course I
must
but it includes air II to see officer in
New York as well as many of the chapters
of members that we have across the USA
and in fact are ahead of easily USA one
or Johnson and his team of staff have
helped to organize this session and some
of some of them are on the call with us
to the those of you who are interested
in working and traveling in the course
of your careers outside of the USA will
be interest to see the many markets and
countries in which you'll find
significant numbers of ACC members and
students and Jeff in his introduction
touched on this for example you may want
to work in places like Singapore Hong
Kong Dubai Kuala Lumpur or London or you
may have aspirations to work in in parts
of Africa such as Botswana Kenya Uganda
Ghana you'd find significant ATC brand
recognition in these markets together
with ready-made networks of ACCA
professionals now in terms of numbers
again just to give you a sense of the
organization we currently have one
hundred and sixty-two thousand members
array in the world so those are those
individuals who have qualified as sec
members a moving through the
qualification and qualifying and moving
into membership we then also have four
hundred and twenty eight thousand
students around the world here on their
journey to becoming a complete finance
professional with ease this year so
that's over six hundred thousand members
and students and of course that number
is growing year-on-year the map that I
showed you and shows that we operate out
of ether nine different international
offices and we have centers and 173
countries around the world and so it
gives you a sense of the scale we also
work with over 200 approved learning or
tuition or teaching providers who are
teaching ACCA qualification and we have
formalized a relationships with over
eight and a half thousands in
lawyers globally as well and obviously
with employability being at the same
sort of this week that that's like he
element of the this is the network and
so I'd really like for the map and for
these figures to help emphasize to you
that Italy is truly a global
organization and no that's an
introduction to who we are and who I am
I hope it's helped you start thinking
about global possibilities offered by a
global I came to see profession and I'd
may like to spend some time talking to
you but why I think now is an incredibly
exciting thing to work in accountancy
and finance okay so I'm going to share
some findings with you and from a couple
of pieces of research ACCA is conducted
in collaboration with prestigious
partners they and through speaking to
our most senior members and the the
research the purpose of showing you the
research is to show that things are
rapidly moving for accountants and that
a career in accountancy can be exciting
and rewarding and when I talk about
accountancy I'm really talking about
cutting a finance related rules and many
different sectors and including public
practice the big big for accountancy
Ferns the public sector in government
and financial services and of course in
the corporate sector whether a
significant proportion of our students
and members based we have accountants
also working in NGOs in startups and
across several and many different
industries and putting fashion media
telecoms and and the airplanes as well
so the list is pretty much endless but
what's it like working in accountancy
and finance no well it wouldn't surprise
you I think if I say turbulence is the
new normal we live in a time where the
world and the respective economies are
exposed to constant shifts and that's
explained
to continue this affects all corners of
the global economy
it affects businesses globally and the
accountancy profession and by having an
understanding of the emerging trends it
helps us to better prepare and places us
in a stronger position to change adjust
and evolve for the future and it helps
us define what the profession will or
kute look like so I just want to
consider some of the external factors
that are creating the turbulence that
I've this I've referred to but I'm not
going to go through all of these with
you and but you will of course be aware
that shifts impaired and wealth extreme
economic uncertainty and political
transitions are occurring through it the
water was at the same time the business
landscape is being reshaped by a
combination of market volatility
globalization and transformational
innovation and the impact of all of
these challenges is compounded by rapid
advances in science and technology
demographic shifts and new disruptive
business models which we're seeing
appearing they all of that I think
actually adds up to very exciting times
and you know there are challenges but
those challenges are there to be grasped
they to enable easy to understand the
future and we have a research academy
within a city called ECC's accountancy
futures and we recently carried out some
work which we called 100 drivers of
change for the global accountancy
profession and we did this in
partnership with an organization which
I'm sure many of you are familiar with
the Institute of Management Accountants
air which is based in the USA the work
was underpinned by global survey which
was designed to address a particular
question and the question which we were
posing was what are the key factors that
ACCA and IME members should be thinking
about to prepare for future
opportunities and challenges over the
next five
- ten years now the report loops at the
drivers of change and it looked at her
acquaintances may respond to those
changes they for those of you who are
thinking oh my goodness he's now going
to take us through 100 drivers of change
fear not and I'm not going to do that
but you'll be relieved to hear that what
we actually did was we looked at the
hundred drivers and we then clustered
those into what we think of a clear
groupings so I do want to share the
groupings with you and because I think
it does really share the categories that
we need to think about that came from
this research so so the eight broad
categories should be listed in front of
you now and they cover the economy
politics and law society business
Science and Technology environments
energy and resources practice of
accounting and the accountancy
profession and and just as an example
all those drivers of change and I just
like to touch on science and technology
and and how those developments are
driving huge changes in society and
business and they are for the
accountancy profession - I don't need to
tell you that technology can
dramatically reshape the remit and the
purpose of any function and particularly
the finance function and what gets done
and where can change through technology
we can certainly expect to see more
automation or finance processes known in
the future but there will always be the
needs for the finance professional to
understand to explain and communicate
the numbers and the financial figures
and be the human face behind the
technology of the supports their work
and so I think the professional
accountant needs to embrace technology
and the profession needs to embrace
technology needs to lead the way and
with changes in technology and changes
in in this area for example in how we
manage our big data which is a very
frequent and hot team that we hear these
days
so those were the eight different
groupings coming out of our hundred
drivers of change but what does this
mean and how should we respond to what
we're seeing in this research our 100
drivers report clearly suggests that the
decade ahead will be characterized by
these many forces acting on business and
the accountancy profession so we need to
be ready for future business
opportunities we need to embrace the
change and we also need to find exciting
new opportunities within it our report
and defined five things that businesses
need to do and for the next decade and
also identified five things for the
accountancy profession to do to prepare
for the future and I think and it really
is worth us considering these names so
we first of all came up with five
imperatives for business I'm and these
were directly linked to our findings so
and we need to plan ahead and in order
to do that we need to assume and plan
for volatility we need to build the
radar in terms of preparing for a wide
range of possibilities means pursue
technology leadership we need to prepare
for true globalization and we need to
develop a curious experiment into an
adaptable main set now when I say we I
mean business needs to the business
world needs to plan ahead in those areas
and to just pull a - in particular the
development of a truly global operating
model is becoming a priority even more
of a priority equally important for
organizations is the development of the
capability of management to work with
and adapt to and get the best out of a
multi location multicultural and age
diverse workforce is absolutely critical
another a critical success factor in an
increasingly complex and fast changing
environment
is for organizations to develop a
curious culture and this implies an
environment that's open to externalize
years and in which participants are
encouraged to forge a network of strong
working relationships and have the space
to experiment and innovate and I think
is we have to say that that's I'll so
much of that is easier said than done it
is a challenge but businesses have to be
planning ahead and thinking about these
things now moving on to think about the
imperatives for the global accountancy
profession in in terms of the global
accountancy profession again the five
areas and that we identified here first
of all and the accountancy profession
needs to embrace an enlarged strategic
and commercial rule it needs to
establish trust and ethical leadership
within an organization it needs to focus
on a holistic view of complexity risk
and performance it needs to develop a
global orientation and extremely
importantly it needs to reinvent the
talent pool for the accountancy
profession so I think I'm speaking to
the future talent pool of the
accountancy profession as I've mentioned
and you are studying at a level that
puts you within reach of being the CFO
and the CEO of tomorrow so I just want
to make about the talent pool and what
we need to do for that talent going
forward they talented people make things
happen
that's quite a bold statement and I am
going to go out on a limb here and I
want to say that to me it's not
strategies or rules one the ruin that
make the difference it's the people
sometimes is easy to forget that people
talent make a business thrive and gruel
is the people it's the talent that
deliver is the people it's the talent
that innovates and it's the people in
the talent that instill trust and
confidence and within and externally to
an organization for these to see the
future or finance talent is something we
take very seriously we know from our
research with employers and members that
the pathways different leadership are
changing and so I don't say that easily
we do take this kind of information very
seriously as and as our professional
accountancy body and operating in our
global platform we absolutely need to
we constantly evolve and we develop a
professional qualification to ensure we
meet the needs of businesses around the
world and ensured our talent is
incredibly well equipped to be the
leaders be the game changers as well as
the guardians of the profession so just
thinking about how you identify that
talent well it's not just someone with
the technical know-how or even their
fantastic personal and professional
skills our professional acquaintance
also have to see the bigger
organizational picture they have to be
prepared for the future the CFO's of
tomorrow don't just need to be great
people managers they also have to have a
thorough grounding across the entire
spectrum of financial management from
budgeting to performance management
compliance and the students this and
this view has been validated by the ACC
research which has offered a unique
insight into the needs of the Air Force
when hiring and seeking and new talent
to join their teams and I just want to
move on through this because I think you
will find this incredibly interesting
I'm going to share some more research
with you and this thing from a report
called the complete finance professional
and for this work we surveyed nearly 500
CFOs across a range of countries
we asked them a series of questions
about what was important to them when it
comes to appointing newly qualified
accountants what gives them confidence
in their new hires what skills enable
them to grow their business particularly
its aim for example since the financial
crisis but what did they look in their
new talent so I just want to share some
statistics with you from that research
the research shows that recruiters
employers are looking to appoint
complete finance professionals they're
seeking a newly qualified accountants
who have both the breadth and the depth
of skills and what you see in front of
you are the knowledge and the skills
that CFO's recruiting talent d1 from
their new accountant so I think is
something for us today that is is
incredibly important for us to take note
of so first of all it's critical to
understand how the finance value team
from budgeting to external reporting all
fits together and of course what was
also scored really highly is a good
understanding of financial management
this shouldn't be a surprise hey we're
talking about after all about hiring
professionals who have expertise in
accountancy and finance look at the
really high scores as well on
professionalism and ethics accountants
must score highly in these areas in
order to retain trust in the profession
and remember Trust was one of the things
and that I mentioned when we were
talking about the five impetus for the
global accountancy profession now these
skills and are all covered very
comprehensively in the ACCA
qualification and I will leave it on in
the presentation just touch on how you
be and develop those skills within the
ACCA qualification now as you can see
just finishing off the statistics there
the scores for management skills and
stakeholder relationship management are
slightly lower than the other scores
possibly because CFOs responds
for hiding we'd see this as an area for
development for the future once there
hires and have more experience of
working within the organization but it's
still a very high score coming through
in terms of what CFOs want from new
recruits so you can see it's not just
about the finance element and Jeff
talked about soft skills in his
introduction excuse me employers are
looking for a very broad and diverse set
of skills and encompassing the full
range of technical and business and soft
skills which is a a tall ask and to be
able to achieve but one that we and you
starting off in your your accounting and
finance careers and really I think need
to need to consider an eighth
I just went to me Yvonne and think about
and you at the start of your careers and
think about ways that and you're able to
keep doors open and relate that to the
ACCA qualification this is your
qualification does keeds a complete
finance professional with a broad base
of knowledge and expertise upon which to
build it's not base from which you can
develop and if you desire develop deep
technical specialisms as well as using
it as a springboard to undertake a range
of lateral moves to build knowledge and
expertise and progressed to those
leadership roles there which are so
important to take economies and
organizations into the future so I read
like to marry and move on
to tell you a bit about the ACC
qualification and what it can do in
practical terms to support you on the
pathway to a career in accountancy and
finance now it's clear that the business
world has a demand for breadth and depth
of knowledge and I hope you've seen that
from some of the statistics and findings
that have
from her recent research history shows
us how quickly the business environment
can change recent history has shown as
lies and the demands placed on the
finance function agency professionals
can deal with these demands and that's
because our qualification has been
designed to ensure that they are trained
across those broad and deep areas that
employers are looking for
I'm sure and many of you who are
thinking about taking your first steps
into the workforce want to have very
broad business careers while others of
you might want to pursue more classic
finance careers but let's leave that
some of you also probably don't know
what you want to do and that's fine and
that's probably why you're also on the
call we get that a lot at ecce we've
developed a very broad-based finance
qualification to help keep career doors
open which then allows our students and
our members to pursue a wider range of
finance and business careers and what
we've created means that our complete
finance professionals are competent and
skillful in a way dreams of disciplines
they that word competency and Jeff min
mentioned it in his introduction I've
mentioned a couple of things I just want
to focus on that M for a little while
and and what I'm showing you here are
ten key competencies which are developed
within our students as part of our
qualification and I just want to mention
first of all what a competency is so we
define a competency as a fundamental
knowledge ability or expertise in a
specific subject area or a specific
behavior and the wheel that you can see
in front of you has the ten teke
competencies featured within the ACCA
qualification so really what I'm showing
you here is a competency free
work that we've developed and which
shows you exactly what skills and
knowledge you get by studying the ECC
qualification and we believe that these
ten areas make up the complete finance
professional a we don't have time to
work through them all I would like to
highlight three I'll just give you a
sense of what those competencies means
so leadership and management absolutely
critical to organizations and this is
about managing resources and leading
organizations effectively and ethically
understanding stakeholder needs and
priorities sustainable management
accounting this looks at assessing
evaluating implementing management
accounting and performance management
systems for planning measuring
controlling and monitoring business
performance to ensure sustainable value
creation central to the real
professionalism and ethics understanding
and behaving in accordance with the
fundamental principles of ethical
behavior and personal ethics in shooting
implementation of appropriate corporate
ethical frameworks easily as a
qualification program that provides the
structure to gain all of these key
competencies and in very broad terms
this is what the structure looks like so
this is our qualification program it's a
very high-level there are three parts to
becoming an agency member completing our
program of exams completing our ethics
our online ethics module and
requirements and achieving a three-year
practical expedients requirements and
which you can use in the workplace there
once you're employed in a finance or
accounting rule as your university
undergraduates expect the part you're
most interested in at this stage is how
you to transition from university into a
professional qualification like a
disease and of course there are others
as well and so and you're obviously also
going to be thinking about how much
study would be involved and how many
more exams and that dreaded work do you
need to sit so this one's have also just
touched on
exam structured as well to give you a
view of of a very high-level view again
of authors exam so and someone coming in
with our relevant accredited accounting
degree so coming from an account an
accredited accounting background we then
have five professional papers to sit
with ACCA and a professional level is
made up of three essentials the core
papers and then there's a choice of
options
ere which students can select as well
and students are required to do two
options the the level we're talking
about is a master's level in terms of
intellectual equivalence and academic
equivalence and and as you can see there
from this site there are two routes into
our professional level and either
through our relevance okay there came to
be roots as I've just said also though
for those students who are coming from
non accounting degree backgrounds we do
have the underpinning of fundamentals
level as well which can then build your
underpinning knowledge to then move on
to those five papers which all of our
students must complete before the and
before they move into membership with
that experience and their ethics
completed as well now and once an
individual has completed the
qualification you can see on the slide
before you this is really the value
proposition that we give to the market
the wider market in terms of an ACCA
member strategically excellent
technically robust and delivering
organizational growth this year
professionals play vital roles in both
the private and the public sectors we
promote them as advocates of saying
business practices champions of
sustainable business developments and
identify errs of value drivers which
lead to high-performing organizations I
refusing research over in fact a
discussion paper which the International
Federation of accountants its
headquarters are in New York it's the
global unveil our organization for all a
reputable professional accountancy
bodies one of ways and they've recently
released a discussion paper about the
skills of the
CFOs are looking for and these state
there's a need for professional
accountants and for typical types of
rules all related those who value one is
creating value one is enabling value one
is preserving value and one is reporting
value and the CFO has to overlook all of
that and I think with the SEC
qualification and the skills the
competences that we provide within the
qualification we very much fit am across
all of those value key value rules and
indeed leading into this year fall okay
so in summary with the qualification the
agency qualification covers everything
that our professional accountant needs
to know tomorrow CFO has to pull off a
very challenging balancing act they have
to collaborate with the top executive
team to drive strategy and growth whilst
they also have to ensure that business
is firmly foundations in the form of
effective risk management internal
controls governance procedures and ACC
through his qualification leads the way
I believe in providing the water wood
with the complete finance professionals
that's it needs like I mentioned earlier
that some of you will be thinking about
the next steps in your career and as you
undertake your and your your accounting
degrees and your accounting majors and
so I would also like to just finish off
before I hand to Jeff by talking about
some of the careers resources that a CCE
can offer we offer to our students and
our members and also to our potential
students as well so I'm showing you a
page from the ACC website and when you
join a sissy or when you go to this page
it immediately offered a range of
support and you may already know that we
have our a huge Facebook presence and
indeed we have our Facebook page
dedicated and to ACCA in the USA we have
a very comprehensive and engaging
website and we also have
24/7 365 day a year contact center for
our students and members and potential
students and this then enables us to
offer a range of remotes also face to
face and networking and information
events as as an organization in terms of
career support you can see in our
careers website ACCA carers calm in
front of you and it seems that those who
want to join the profession those who
are already working in accountancy and
finance as well the website here
provides a more users with information
about accountancy as well as their
facility to browse and apply for
financials what would we need employers
and recruiters heavily use it to target
a pill of highly skilled highly
qualified accountants for recruitment
purposes there was talented people that
I talked about and in in earlier on in
the presentation and the type of
material that I think you'll find a
useful includes information on subjects
like psychometric testing a key part of
selection processes for candidates
there's also a section dedicated to
graduates ere recruitment as well as
others focused on working
internationally as well so we offer this
type of support because we want our
students and we want our members to
achieve their potential and there be
that be the base but what about you and
this this seminar is for you and the
week in theatres is for you to engage
with your next steps as I Canton and
finance professionals and so what does
the future hold well if you want a
rewarding career that can take you
anywhere then to me this is the
profession that can get you from where
you want to be whether that's in the
boardroom as a CFO or as a small
business winner advising other small
businesses about the ERR financial
strategies and development all
organisations
we'll always need professionals who
understand finance all organizations
need talented people who can help make
the business a success and let's not
forget to the professional accountants
play a vital role in wider society as
well they provide value by giving
businesses and individuals the
confidence to invest and that in turn
allows countries organizations and most
importantly people the opportunity to
realize their potential and I'm sure
you're well on your way to being a key
player in an extremely exciting time for
finance professionals okay I hope this
presentation has helped you understand
why the accountancy profession is an
incredibly exciting choice right now why
is something you might want to pursue as
a career and have a professional body
like a CCA
can help you succeed in your career
goals thank you very much ladies and
gentlemen for listening to me and
indulging me in deeds and a merry late
to hand over to Jay and hopefully we'll
have some questions and we have quite a
few questions and but first of all thank
you this this has been phenomenal I will
speak on behalf of the entire audience
hopefully I can imagine them not
agreeing one of the one of the slides
one of the many points two takeaways I
took is it was about your your statement
that talent makes things happen and
you're talking to an audience of
potential talent and so it's important
for them to understand how can they
position themselves so that an employer
would have confidence that they are that
talent that can make things happen and
you listed based off the off of ACCA
surveying of what those skill sets are
so we'll be sending those back out
through the recording of the
webinar because I hope that everyone on
the call will pay very special attention
to that you want to position yourself in
the best light possible to be to work in
the best organizations so I'm gonna ask
a few questions Alan that if the pop
star I'll speak to the audience quickly
and tell you that if but if we cannot
get to every single question I'm gonna
give you a resource over the chat that
you can you can chat live 24/7 with ACCA
support to answer your questions
Alan the first question that I'll ask
you is as a global qualification
what is a CCA's role in the
international financial discourse okay
thank you very much Jeff and that same
they've seen the good questions who
start us off and in terms of how we
engage and in the international
discourse and we do it in a number of
ways and it's it's sensual for example
to the research and insight some of
which I've shared with you today the the
technical work the events that we run
the marketing activities that we deliver
and of course the ACCA qualification and
we're extremely keen to engage and as we
do on a number of issues of relevance to
the profession and across audit tax the
future skills the profession needs and
ultimately in in our discourse our aim
is to prove the value of the profession
in building and sustaining strong
economies and and we do that through
capacity-building which is something
which is very key to our priorities over
in the water would and in addition to
the ECC qualification which is truly
global and as such transfer of
transferrable and all of our
qualification is based on international
standards air which then makes it and it
gives it that mobility and transparence
something which is same a very important
there is as I mentioned is the capacity
building and that's
the rule of the accountancy profession
and economic developments around the
world and and that's a particular
feature and of ECC's role in the
international forums for this course
that we have Alan thank you do do people
with a global qualification tend to find
themselves pursuing cross-border careers
yeah again a really good question and we
you probably gather we we speak to her
students and our members a lot from the
em from the the huge network that we
have and and we surveyed our global
membership around their career
aspirations goals and and benefits and
we did that in June 2013 and and we had
them respondents globally and we had
over four thousand respondents coming
back for that survey event career
aspirations now not surprisingly and
mobility was something that came very
strongly from their feedback mobility in
terms of working internationally and the
awesome ability in terms of multi
sectors as well and so just to give you
a sense and we had 63 percent of our
members saying that they had multi
sector experience and that added to and
very much to their career including an
experience within the corporate sector
we also had em over sixty percent and
saying that they would look to expand
their career her horizons looking to
work in other markets as well so I'm in
fact sixty-two percent said that they
wanted to experience another culture and
that they would use the ACCA
qualification as a passport and
effectively to to gain them employment
opportunities in in different areas
around the world and so I think and in
short the it does
give the ability to pursue cross sports
or get ears and cross sake for kid ears
as well mm-hmm certainly does a couple
couple more questions here this one
related to two you know the banking
crisis these crises that we have watched
across the news we've seen that it seems
like several of the world's latest
banking crises related to unethical
accounting so where does the ACCA come
down on this and how does the ACCA
address this yeah yeah again on another
extremely good questioning when I look
back and easy to see either see what has
been the first ending so many things and
I also believe were one of the first
accountancy organizations to address the
the causes of the financial crisis and
from 2008 onwards we've we've published
a number of policy papers the talk that
has talked to pay risk and reward and
also failures in corporate governance
and we've also offered solutions to
issues and especially of a corporate
governance which we believe sensuous in
shooting that risky behavior in is
challenged a a fix is something which is
extremely important professionalism and
ethics and governance are extremely
important within the competencies all of
these is a qualification and and it very
much is the same sort of of that wheel
that I that I showed you earlier and I
think we are headed in the right
direction and but we must continue to
remain absolutely watchful in terms of
pursuit of excellence and and delivering
public value and through ethical
practices and I think if you see it does
very much to achieve that some
qualifications
Allen the the question that I've gotten
probably more often than than any other
is his students asking about the
relationship between the ACCA
designation and the CPA designation can
you talk about you know a lot of these
students are preparing for the CPA or
they have a CPA and and what is the
relationship between the two and and how
do you advise American students to be
thinking about the two degrees the two
credentials I should say yeah okay I
mean I I think the the the first of all
to say that they are two separate
credentials and with similarities and
differences across their credentials I
would say that the biggest difference
and with regards to the a qualification
in credential is the international basis
for the qualification and the global
relevance and recognition and I'd also
say that in terms of the UCA
qualification we do cover that breadth
and depth across the qualification and
what that means is that for for students
who are looking for either and
multi-sector careers or wish to
specialize in one sector but across
whether it be public practice the
corporate sector the public sector and
across many different industries what
the ecce qualification will prepare you
for the career of your choice and so I
do think that a major difference is the
global the global relevance but also the
global services that ACC offers in terms
of the ACC age with angel and the SEC
network and I mentioned the markets
earlier and as examples actually know a
comprehensive list or just examples of
where we have networked so easily
students ACC members and ACC partners in
terms of employers and also learning
providers and and I believe that that
relevance that reach the ACC
is is what makes ECC different to other
credentials which may be available does
that make sense Jeff you've gone quiet
sorry Alan I was I was responding and
then I realized I was on mute thank you
for saying that um it does make sense it
does this so since most of the audience
here is most of the audiences is college
or our undergraduates in college or
maybe master's students do one of our
students wants to know do I have to get
an ACCA do I have to get a CCA before I
start working internationally
what say you so one of the features of
the ACCA qualification which we strive
to deliver and I think will always
deliver this flexibility and it links
very much to the value of opportunity
and as I mentioned earlier on in the
presentation so we have a flexible and
qualification which means that and we
have some students who are pursuing the
qualification or whilst they are working
and by that I mean they're sitting the
exams and also working in a relevant
accounting and finance rule and and
that's that so that's a very strong
model we also have students who are in
full-time education and who for a
variety of different reasons have chosen
to work through that exams and achieve
that exams before they then take
employment whilst they've well when the
event and pursue employment we will then
achieve their classical experience
requirements F which is the years of
practical experience and working in a
relevant rule so by that what I mean is
that there are different journeys
through the ACC qualification some of
which will mean that you're studying and
working at the same time others will
mean you will be studying in sitting
your exams and then achieving your
practical experience afterwards and when
you're doing professional exams
one thing I read see is that because
they are professional exams and this is
a difference to academic exams when when
you are assessing professional
qualification they are applied and so
they are giving scenarios living giving
key studies and we have many key studies
within our professional level papers
which means that expedience does add to
your performance in the exams as well as
to the exams adding to your exam
training at interview these feelings
that you gain in the workplace so we
would always recommend we are possible
students gain that experience at the
same time at least of sitting there
professional level exams but we maintain
flexibility within the qualification
therefore allowing students to tailor
the qualification to their individual
circumstances and we firmly believe in
not using artificial barriers in place
and which then hinder students in
working through the qualification now
that makes sense I appreciate that
what about I have a question and I think
I even know the answer to it but but you
may want to elaborate on this but one of
our attendees wants to know how they
became they can remember of ACCA Alan to
become a member of ACCA and there is a
program of exams there's a program of
expedience and there's a set of ethics
requirements which are which must be
achieved so we call them the three e's
and exams experience and ethics the
number of exams you have to take and
will depend on the route you're coming
into the qualification so if you're
coming in with our elephant and
accredited accounting degree then you
would have five exam papers to take and
if you're coming in from I'm a history
graduate so if you're coming in with a
history degree then of course you would
have to build up your fundamental
knowledge before moving on to the
professional level so each student's
journey will be different but um if
you're and I came from the students
and then you are lately to start hired
up the qualification and therefore I
have less exams to do then if you're
norsu nikitin
from an acting background so the broad
message there is to in order to become
an ACCA member it's a professional
accountancy qualification which has a
programme of exams a programme of
experience and also ethics requirements
very importantly within the
qualification I see so you can become a
member a student there's a student
membership and but I guess I guess you
call everyone students even if they are
experienced professionals but you can
you can become a member and then you can
that that is a something to do before
you actually get the certification is
that right Alan yeah that's right and
then yes so just to clarify so you would
become a student member of ACCA before
you then become a full member
and so when you register with face to
see that then enables you to undertake
the qualification access so many more
resources that Pam I haven't been able
to show you there today and get the
support so then work through the
qualification and we do actually have in
the spirit of Fame technology and
science driving as far as we we have an
app which you can download onto your I
do think that salesman name you can
download it out on onto your iPhone's
and your androids and which is a free
app and that app will actually lead you
through what you need to do to become a
student and a member of ACCA so for
those of you with your smartphones out
there and I would recommend you you you
have a look for the ACC app because it
is a really helpful tool in
understanding what your journey to
becoming a complete finance professional
would be I've got a very random question
and then we're gonna wrap it up coz were
a couple minutes over but as you can
tell we've had a lot of questions but
this is kind of a fun one we have a
student his he was going to pick up a
second language this is an American
student I was wondering if there's a
language that you would recommend
would be beneficial learning if they
went into global accounting now there's
surely no right answer but I'd be
curious what your opinion is on that
well it does a really interesting
question actually and then why we'd see
is the from all the research that we've
done English language is still the
global business language and the
language which will then give you that
passport in order to work across
different markets and I think it's
always brilliant to have a second
language I myself very badly speak
Spanish and I tend to speak styles and
so always I think learning languages and
learning about new cultures is really
really important when you're working in
a global and a global marketplace I bet
you know thinking I wonder what Spanish
things with a Scottish accent you know
and so I think learning another language
is always a skill of it that will be
valuable in your tool bank what I do
think though as I said is the English
language is seen as the global business
language and will be seen as that and
going forward from the research that we
see so having an English language I came
to see professional accountancy
qualification will give you that
passport to working across borders I
would be very curious what Spanish
sounds like with your accent and I bet
everybody else thought that too
and also I was awful we also had a
question of our comment from from one of
our attendees who said when you
reference Sean Connery earlier that
ironically it is James Bond week here in
the United States so your timing is
perfect
so um Alan I can honestly say this is
one of the most thoughtful presentations
we have ever had and a lot of people are
writing in saying thank you so much you
have clearly do speak from the heart
about this topic and and are extremely
knowledgeable I think this is a great
introduction to ACCA to a lot of
accounting students here in the States
there are a lot of questions I
unfortunately could not answer but I did
send out two very helpful resources
there are real
people at that email address that I sent
out for support at ACCA global and also
at the chat line that I mentioned so if
I did not answer your question couldn't
ask it please reference that Alan before
I end our session today I'd like you to
have the last word please know how
grateful we all are that you took the
time to be a part of this today well
thank you so much Jeff and I'd like to
say firstly thank you to my colleagues
Sita and Sujata for all the supports and
in the lead upon through the event and
also to you Jennifer for cheating so
brilliantly and to the audience out
there it's been an absolute pleasure to
speak to such a talented a group of
accounting majors and as I said at the
beginning of the presentation heeding
all of the locations across the u.s. was
was mesmerizing for me I would like to
offer you and every success in your
career whatever that may go I hope it
does go to becoming a complete finance
professional taking economies and
organizations into the future and being
the the CFO and as I said the CEOs of
the future but for now for me it Sam
well thank you so much for this
opportunity and absolutely the best of
luck in your future careers thank you
thanks everybody that concludes today's
session Alan and team from ACCA we thank
you and we will end the webinar now
everybody have a good day
Alan have a great night we'll talk to
you soon bye now thank you so much
bye-bye